{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Light;\f4\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f5\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red33\green34\blue36;\red26\green26\blue26;
\red245\green245\blue246;\red31\green35\blue38;\red255\green255\blue255;\red87\green169\blue123;\red16\green117\blue52;
\red255\green242\blue170;\red35\green107\blue170;}
{\info
{\author `}
{\*\company `}
{\*\copyright `}}\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18460\viewh15500\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The concept was simple: where you live determines how much your arm is worth. But the data was anything but: 50 states, 13 body parts, a different dollar amount assigned to each arm, leg, or big toe that is seriously injured on the job. While \cf0 \outl0\strokewidth0 the system of workers compensation in the United States is disjointed and complex, we wanted our data visualization to be clear, intuitive, and effective. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf3 Our solution was to take advantage of the most ready metaphor and something our brains are wired to distinguish easily: the human body. For each state we built a human figure, 
\f0 \cf0 visually similar to the chart of beef cuts sometimes shown in butcher shops. By allowing people to quickly scan rows and rows of human forms \'96 each body part sized according to how much the state pays in compensation benefits \'96 the interactive graphic conveys at a glance the arbitrary and preposterous discrepancies in state benefits. Lose a thumb in Kentucky? You\'92re entitled to a maximum of almost $200,000. Happen to live in Rhode Island? The top payout is $13,500.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In this short talk Lena Groeger will explain the imagining, designing and building of a data visualization on insurance that became an unlikely viral hit.  \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 It neither shies away from the grim truth nor trivializes it with gallows humor.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
a data visualization on the demolished workers comp system that affects hundreds of thousands of people who suffer serious injuries at work each year.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
This was the idea we needed to convey: that the system of workers compensation in the United States\cf0 \outl0\strokewidth0  is so disjointed that crossing state lines can mean the difference in thousands of dollars of benefits for workers injured on the job. We decided to  arbitrary and sometimes absurd discrepancies \
\
\
Each state has body part is assigned a dollar amount, which means that  The loss of an arm, foot, eye, big toe     or  \
\cf2 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs28 \cf4 \cb5 \strokec4 The idea for the chart came straight from states' "schedule of benefits" in which each body part is assigned a certain value when determining workers comp benefits. It was a pretty clear analogy to an Angus beef chart... so we went with a literal interpretation! Also, our brains are pretty good at distinguishing body shapes and sizes, so we figured it would be a great way for people to quickly scan and compare each state. We did go through about two dozen variations of the human figure before getting one that wasn't extremely goofy/creepy... maybe they're still a 
\i little
\i0 creepy.\

\f3\fs52 \cf6 \cb7 \strokec6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf0 \cb1 \outl0\strokewidth0 Her interactive graphic uses schematic images of the human body, one for each state, that are visually similar to the chart of beef cuts sometimes shown in butcher shops. 
\f3\fs52 \cf6 \cb7 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl640\partightenfactor0
\cf6 \
At work in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://twitter.com/lenagroeger"}}{\fldrslt \cf8 \strokec8 \uc0\u8234 @\cf9 \strokec9 lenagroeger}}'s graphic: Our brains are wired to distinguish individuals by body shape quickly. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs30 \cf3 \cb1 \outl0\strokewidth0 To illustrate the disjointed system that has emerged, Grabell worked with ProPublica news app developer \cb10 Lena\cb1  Groeger to construct an interactive that showed the wide variations in the value of a workers' body parts between states. Calculating the value each state put on a lost arm or leg was no simple matter; reporters had to learn the intricacies of each jurisdiction\'92s unique set of complex rules and formulas. \'85. First, the state differences in workers\'92 compensation are vast, but when one also considers the different benefits per body part \'96 a hand versus an eye, for example \'96 the complexity increases fast. Our challenge was to convey this complexity in an engaging, easy to understand way. Our solution was to use the most ready metaphor: the human body. For each we built a human form, each limb proportionally sized according to a specific dollar amount. ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://propub.ca/work-limb"}}{\fldrslt \cf11 http://propub.ca/work-limb}}) Users could sort the figures by state or by the compensation amount for a particular limb. Because our eyes can quickly see differences in the human form, this provided a perfect visual tool to convey a very complicated dataset. \
Each limb was sized programmatically by calculating the maximum amount a worker could be paid for that limb in that state compared to the national average. Because a single updated number in the dataset would reconfigure every limb size, it was crucial for us to be able to update this graphic using a computer program and not painstakingly by hand. We also gave readers the ability to search for a particular state and zoom in to more easily compare it to the national average.\
\

\f3\fs52 \cf6 \cb7 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl640\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 You would think that an infographic about the insurance industry couldn\'92t be a viral hit. You would be wrong.
\f4\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 More than a century ago, labor and industry came together and formed a historic compact called workers\'92 compensation to take care of injured workers and their families. Workers gave up their right to sue in exchange for prompt medical care and enough of their wages to get by while they recovered.
\f4\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs30 \cf2  
\f4\i0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 But a ProPublica and NPR investigation found that over the past decade, state after state has been dismantling its workers\'92 comp system, often at the behest of big business and insurance companies.
\f4\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 Stories by ProPublica\'92s Michael Grabell and NPR\'92s Howard Berkes detailed how the changes have resulted in disastrous consequences for many of the hundreds of thousands of people who suffer serious injuries at work each year. Workers have been evicted from their homes, denied prosthetic devices their doctors recommended or left in precarious situations when their home health aides were taken away. 
\f4\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 Grabell also gathered a mountain of data, combing through the laws of all 50 states to document how the laws worked, where they fell short and how drastically they differed from one another 
\f5 \'96
\f0  even across state lines. One particularly telling piece of that data showed the maximum compensation workers could receive for the loss of each body part in each state, D.C. and the federal system. Reporters computed this value using each state\'92s complicated formula.
\f4\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 News Applications Developer Lena Groeger used this data to compose a compelling visual story, \'93Workers\'92 Comp Benefits: How Much is a Limb Worth,\'94 which dramatically showed the arbitrary and sometimes absurd discrepancies in benefits. 
\f4\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 Her interactive graphic uses schematic images of the human body, one for each state, that are visually similar to the chart of beef cuts sometimes shown in butcher shops. Moving your mouse over each body part reveals the compensation that state provides for the parts compared to the national average. By allowing people to quickly scan rows and rows of human forms \'96 each body part sized according to how much the state pays in compensation benefits \'96 the graphic conveys at a glance the huge disparity in state benefits.
\f4\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 Comparing states, readers can see the often preposterous differences between states for the same injury. Nevada, for instance, doles out up to $859,634 for the loss of an arm, while Alabama\'92s top payout is just $48,840.
\f4\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 Clear-eyed and effective, the graphic neither shies away from the grim truth nor trivializes it with gallows humor. Audiences responded, making it an unlikely viral hit for a story about workers\'92 comp. More than 600,000 people viewed the graphic in its first days. }